### [< back](../GuideForDocumentation.md)
# Servos
### This arm has 2 servos: MG90S and MG996R. 
### MG996R is used to move the claw. It has three wires: the red one is the power source, the brown one is ground and the yellow one is which will command how to move. Because the wires were too short I extended them and in the end we have: violet is the power source, black is ground and the blue one is to command it. The servo has a power supply of 5 volts. The command wire is connected to the 13th pin in the Arduino. In the Arduino in the code I use a Servo variable to move it.  When I set the position 180 the claw will open and when I set 45 it will close. I don’t close it so as not to keep the bottle too tight.
### MG90S rotates the claw. It has 3 wires: brown is ground, yellow is VCC, and orange is one who commands how to move. With this servo I can grab objects even though they are not parallel with the arm direction. Also the connections are made in this way: black with brown, yellow with white and orange with gray. Because the wires were, again, too short I extended them: blue is for power supply, gray is for command and black is ground. To move it, we need an angle which is an integer number. This one has the same power supply requirements as the previous one (5V), but the command wire is connected to the 11th pin in the Arduino. But this Servo is MG90S and it has a big problem: this servo breaks very easily, and if you connect it and it doesn’t move as you expected (the move is jerky, chaotic or continuous, although it should stop. As a recommendation is to test it using Servo.h library) it can be a sign that the servo is broken and you should replace it or fix it. 
### To command both servos, I used the Servo.h library. It is a very easy way to use these types of engines. To work you use a variable and attach to it a pin in setup (I used 11th pin and 13th pin in the Arduino for this project).  To move the servo you need to call a method named write which has a single argument: an integer with a value between 0 and 180.
#### To learn how to command the servos I used this [link](https://www.instructables.com/Arduino-Servo-Motors/). The mode you command the servo in shown in this site is working in most cases for every server.
#### $$\color{red}Do$$ $$\color{red}not$$ $$\color{red}hit$$ $$\color{red}the$$ $$\color{red}servos.$$ This action can break the servo, so it will not move right after this.
